a) Which advantages do direct pointing devices have over indirect pointing devices? Name one use case where using a direct pointing device would not make any sense.

Direct pointing devices have the advantage over indirect ones in that the user can usually use them intuitively. For example even people without much experience with technical devices - like elderly or very young people - can quickly understand that a stylus can be used on a tablet just like a pen on paper.
With indirect pointing devices the user have to make the mental effort to translate the movement from the pointing devices to the movement on the device.
However, this translation makes it possible to operate a mouse, for example, much more precisely than a finger on a touchpad. But especially on very large screens, it is only advantageous that a small movement of the mouse results in a larger movement of the cursor on the monitor. In a multi-monitor environment, it would be unthinkable to work only with direct pointing devices.

b) How would you characterize “Shift” based on the classification criteria mentioned in the Wikipedia article?

We would characterize the "SHIFT" as follows:
    direct input: the pointer is at the same physical position as the finger (in this case the pointing device)
    or???
    indirect input: SHIFT solves the problem of the finger (pointing device) obscuring the area of the display that is being pointed to by displaying a copy of the obscured display section in an unused location.  The on-screen pointer is therefore not exactly at the same position as the physical pointer, but slightly offset.

    absolute movement: A movement of the finger (pointing-device) is converted into a movement of the cursor without translation.

    position control: Changing the position of the finger directly change the position of the pointer

    Isometric and isotonic:
    It's isotonic because the finger as input device is movable - moreover it's also isometric because the force of the finger on the display is measured.

    translation: The device (finger) is physically translated.

    degrees of freedom: 3 degrees (translation (x,y and z) with x and y movements on the screen and z the lifting of the finger)

    also possible states???

c) What is the size of the display used in the study?

The study used a PDA with a display size of 550 x 730 mm or respectively 240 x 320 px.
